1. In the Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 1, the title of the standard is "Presentation of Financial Statements" instead of "Presentation of Financial Performance".
2. Ind AS 1 allows only the single statement approach for profit and loss, unlike IAS 1 which gives the option for both single and multi-statement approaches.
3. Different terminology is used in Ind AS 1, such as 'balance sheet' instead of 'Statement of financial position', 'Statement of Profit and Loss' instead of 'Statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income', and 'true and fair view' instead of 'fair presentation'.
4. In Ind AS 1, the words 'approval of the financial statements for issue' have been used instead of 'authorisation of the financial statements for issue' in the context of financial statements considered for the purpose of events after the reporting period.
5. In deciding whether a particular accounting policy should be disclosed in Ind AS 1, management considers factors such as whether the disclosure would assist users in understanding how transactions, other events and conditions are reflected in reported financial performance and financial position. The disclosure is especially useful when those policies are selected from alternatives allowed in Ind ASs.
6. In Ind AS 1, management assesses an entity's ability to continue as a going concern. If management intends to liquidate the entity or cease trading, or has no realistic alternative, financial statements shall not be prepared on a going concern basis.
7. Ind AS 1 allows only the single statement approach for profit and loss, unlike IAS 1 which gives the option to individual entities to follow different presentation formats.
8. In Ind AS 1, there is no provision for different uses of financial statements for Board and auditor reporting, such as tracking USD forward cover contracts and MTM valuations. SAP Fiori apps and SAP Analytics Cloud (SAC) support real-time monitoring of compliance with Ind AS requirements in these areas.
9. In Ind AS 1, accounting policies are disclosed when they relate to an area for which an entity is required to make significant judgements or assumptions in applying the policy, and the entity discloses those judgements or assumptions in accordance with paragraphs 122 and 125 of the standard. The disclosure helps users understand the entity's financial statements better.
10. Accounting policies are disclosed when they are complex, such as if an entity applies more than one Ind AS to a class of material transactions, and users would otherwise not understand those material transactions, other events or conditions. This situation could arise if an entity applies more than one Ind AS to a class of material transactions.
11. Accounting policy information that focuses on how an entity has applied the requirements of the Ind ASs to its own circumstances provides entity-specific information that is more useful to users of financial statements than standardized information or information that only duplicates or summarizes the requirements of the Ind ASs.
12. If an entity discloses immaterial accounting policy information, such information shall not obscure material accounting policies or the underlying transactions, other events and conditions they represent.