1. Deliver working software frequently (from weeks to months, preferably shorter timescales) - The second Agile principle encourages welcoming changing requirements and delivering working software frequently.
2. Welcome changing requirements, even late in development - The second Agile principle also encourages welcoming changing requirements as this could be a good competitive advantage for you.
3. Working software is the primary measure of progress - The seventh agile principle emphasizes considering only the working software as the signal of progress. Everything else is considered noise or irrelevant.
4. Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project - The third agile principle advocates for close collaboration between business stakeholders and development teams, to keep any misunderstandings at bay.
5. Working software should be delivered in brief time periods (sprints) in order to support adaptation - The eighth agile principle states that delivering working software frequently allows the client to evaluate the package increment regularly and offer necessary feedback to the software development team for adaptation.
6. Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility - The ninth agile principle advocates for investing in scalable, secure, high-performance tech to build resilience and consistently beat competitors.
7. Simplicity--the art of maximizing the amount of work not done--is essential - Lean software development practices are popular for their focus on minimalism and delivering value without excessive effort.
8. The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams - For optimal performance, the agile team should be empowered to design stellar architectures and product designs independently of red-ribbon processes for approval of design/architecture.
9. Regular adaptation is needed to remain responsive to change - The Agile methodology emphasizes continuous improvement and suggests adapting incrementally to keep pace with unpredictability and changes in user needs or market conditions.
10. Regularly reflect on how to become more effective, then tune and adapt as necessary - To ensure sustained progress, the agile team should regularly reflect on their work processes and make adjustments as needed for continuous improvement.
11. Agile processes promote sustainable development - The eighth agile principle underlines the importance of a healthy and productive work environment, where developers can maintain a constant pace indefinitely without burnout or toxicity.
12. Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility - The ninth agile principle is an ardent backer of good tech stack, architecture, and design to build resilience and consistently beat competitors.